GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Judy Woodruff is on assignment.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: the
race for the
White House moves from coffee
shops to tarmacs,
as the map expands to 12 more
states for Super
Tuesday.
Also ahead: missiles, bombers,
and submarines.
We look at America's aging
nuclear triad.
And former NSA and CIA Director
Michael Hayden
talks about his new book on
American intelligence
in the age of terror.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN (RET.),
Former CIA Director:
I sat there with the order to
authorize extended
sleep deprivation on one of the
detainees,
Mohammad Rahim, and I never
forgot he was
a human being.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: President Obama
today insisted
he will send a resistant Senate
a Supreme
Court nominee. Senate Republican
say they
will hold no hearings or vote
and will, instead,
wait until a new president takes
office next
year.
But in an Oval Office meeting
with the king
of Jordan, the president said
he's going to
his job, and senators should do
theirs.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I recognize the
politics are hard for them,
because the easier
thing to do is to give in to the
most extreme
voices within their party and
stand pat and
do nothing. But that's not our
job. Our job
is to fulfill our constitutional
duties.
GWEN IFILL: At the same time, it
was widely
reported the White House is
vetting Republican
Governor Brian Sandoval of
Nevada as a possible
nominee. He confirmed he's
discussed it with
the state's two senators,
Minority Leader
Harry Reid and Republican Dean
Heller. We
will delve into all of the court
fight later
in the program.
The Senate did confirm a new
commissioner
of the Food and Drug
Administration today.
Robert Califf has been the
agency's number
two official. Before that, he
was a well-known
cardiologist and medical
researcher at Duke
University.
Also today, the president
nominated Carla
Hayden to be the 14th librarian
of Congress.
She's currently head of the
Enoch Pratt Free
Library in Baltimore, and will
be the first
woman, and African-American, to
serve in the
post.
House Republicans now say
they're gearing
for a legal fight if President
Obama tries
to close the Guantanamo
detention center and
transfer prisoners to U.S. soil.
Speaker Paul Ryan today warned
the president
not to use executive action to
bypass a congressional
ban against moving inmates.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
We are making legal
preparations, if the president
tries to break the law. And what
boggles my
mind is that the president is
contemplating
directing the military to
knowingly break
the law.
Our law is really clear. And, by
the way,
Democrats wrote this law when
they were in
the majority, when they ran
Congress, which
is these detainees cannot come
to American
soil.
GWEN IFILL: Top Senate
Republicans said they
would join in any legal
challenge.
Austria and Balkan nations
agreed in Vienna
today to tighten border controls
against migrants.
Government ministers met amid
rising security
concerns and shrinking
resources. Greece complained
it wasn't invited, but the
Austrians said
Athens has done nothing to stop
the flow.
Meanwhile, an estimated 20,000
people are
stranded in Greece, after
countries to the
north began barring migrants.
U.N. workers
handed out blankets and other
aid. Russia
has ramped up diplomatic efforts
to sell a
cease-fire in Syria. President
Vladimir Putin
made phone calls today to Syrian
President
Bashar al-Assad, plus the king
of Saudi Arabia,
the president of Iran and the
prime minister
of Israel.
And Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov met with
former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn,
chiding those
who've questioned the
cease-fire.
SERGEI LAVROV, Russian Foreign
Minister (through
translator): On the very day
when the presidents
of Russia and the United States
approved the
joint initiative on the
cease-fire in Syria,
voices could be heard both from
the capitals
of the U.S. allies and from
Washington which
doubted the feasibility of this
agreement.
There is a call for war, and not
for peace,
in these voices.
GWEN IFILL: Secretary of State
John Kerry
said again today he cannot vouch
that the
truce will work. He and Lavrov
also spoke
today by phone.
Severe weather threatened nearly
90 million
people along the U.S. East Coast
today. The
powerful system killed three
people in Virginia
after killing three others in
the Gulf states
overnight. Officials say at
least seven tornadoes
struck Louisiana and
Mississippi, and left
thousands without power. Drone
video captured
the destruction in Pensacola,
Florida, where
more than 70 homes were damaged.
Meanwhile, a major snowstorm
blasted parts
of the Midwest today, canceling
more than
1,000 flights to and from
Chicago.
Stanford University has
announced the world's
largest fully-endowed
scholarship program.
Nike co-founder Phil Knight is
donating $400
million to an endowment that's
expected to
reach $750 million. It will fund
100 full
scholarships each year for
master's and doctorate
degrees. Candidates will be
nominated by their
undergraduate programs.
Wall Street managed to stave off
another day
of losses. The Dow Jones
industrial average
gained 53 points to close at
16485. The Nasdaq
rose 39 points, and the S&P 500
added eight.
And the Big Apple is no longer
home to the
most billionaires in the world.
A Chinese
firm reports that that its
latest yearly rankings
-- in its latest yearly
rankings, Beijing
is the new title holder, with
100 billionaires.
New York has only 95. The shift
highlights
how China's elite are piling up
vast wealth,
even as the nation's economy
cools.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Donald Trump
gains momentum ahead of Super
Tuesday; a look
at the showdown between the
president and
the Republican Congress; should
the U.S. rebuild
its entire nuclear arsenal?; and
much more.
And it's off to the races, as
the 2016 campaign
turns into a scattershot chase
among Democrats
and Republicans for votes across
dozens of
states.
Political director Lisa
Desjardins reports.
LISA DESJARDINS: Donald Trump is
on a roll.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: After winning
in Nevada last
night, he's sprinting to Super
Tuesday states,
like Virginia today.
DONALD TRUMP: I think we're
really doing well.
It looks like we're in a great
trend, and
we have tremendous support, and
we have amazing
people in this country.
LISA DESJARDINS: Out of the
first four Republican
contests, Trump has won three
straight: New
Hampshire, South Carolina,
Nevada. But now
the map and the game is changing
dramatically,
no more one-state-at-a-time
campaigning; in
the next three weeks, a blitz of
states will
vote. In fact, half of the
states in the country
will go to the polls between now
and March
15.
That's why Trump tackled
Virginia today, and
John Kasich was in Mississippi
and Louisiana.
Meanwhile, Marco Rubio, who
placed second
in Nevada, plus third-place Ted
Cruz and fourth-place
Ben Carson, they were all in
Texas, the crown
jewel of Super Tuesday, with 155
convention
delegates.
For Lone Star Senator Cruz, it's
a must-win
state. And he's telling
supporters the stakes
next Tuesday are high.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
This call from Texas to the
country, we have
six days to stand together and
say we will
not give up on our country, we
will not give
up on our freedoms, we will not
give up on
our children!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: Also, look
who's sitting
next to Cruz there, Texas
Governor Greg Abbott,
who endorsed him today.
GOV. GREG ABBOTT (R), Texas:
Unlike far too
many in Washington, the Ted Cruz
we have seen
in the Senate is the same Ted
Cruz we elected.
LISA DESJARDINS: As Republicans
fan out, the
Democratic front-runner, Hillary
Clinton,
was in South Carolina focusing
on a theme,
African-American voters.
Democrats there vote
Saturday.
Today, she shook hands with
members of a social
justice group, and then spoke of
racial equity
at a black sorority luncheon.
Clinton is also
using endorsements, like one
today from Senate
Democratic Leader Harry Reid, to
argue that
she has momentum.
SEN. HARRY REID (D-NV), Minority
Leader: I
think the middle class would be
better served
by Hillary.
LISA DESJARDINS: Bernie Sanders
has a different
strategy. He started the day in
South Carolina
as well. But he told reporters
he's already
looking past the Palmetto State.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
The nature of the world is that
we have got
to go out to other states. I
think I'm leaving
for Oklahoma in a little while,
where we think
we have a shot to win. We think
have a shot
to win in Massachusetts,
Colorado, Minnesota,
and in other states.
LISA DESJARDINS: From there,
Sanders flew
to Missouri, and Oklahoma, and
the bigger
Super Tuesday map. And so it is
for both sides.
As February melts away into
March, the 2016
race has shifted into a
cross-country scramble
to stay alive.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
GWEN IFILL: Now we take a closer
look at two
key upcoming states, with Andy
Shain of The
State newspaper in Columbia,
South Carolina,
and in Houston, Texas, Abby
Livingston, the
Washington bureau chief for The
Texas Tribune.
Andy Shain, what has been the
pitch that the
candidates have been making
heading into this
Democratic primary in South
Carolina?
ANDY SHAIN, The State: Well,
both candidates
are trying to win over the
African-American
vote.
They make up a majority of the
Democratic
voters here in South Carolina.
It's crucial
if you are going to win here in
South Carolina.
And at this moment, Hillary
Clinton is doing
a much better job. She has been
winning over
African-Americans as part of an
effort that
she's been doing for a number of
years now,
as she's built the ground work
for her campaign.
Also, of course, she was a major
factor in
the 2008 primary, where she
didn't beat Barack
Obama here in South Carolina.
But, of course,
those are relationships that she
was able
to carry over. Senator Sanders
has been working
very hard to try to win over
African-Americans,
especially by visiting
African-American churches,
working with African-American
lawmakers. It
just hasn't made the inroads
that he was hoping.
GWEN IFILL: In fact, today, he
had a press
conference. He didn't throw in
the towel,
but he sounded a little resigned
to the possible
outcome.
ANDY SHAIN: He has.
His pollster told our Jamie Self
yesterday
that he understands that he
doesn't want folks
to look at the margins, because
it is going
to be fairly big. Right now,
Secretary Clinton
is leading by 28 points in the
most recent
polls. It's not looking good.
Senator Sanders was here for the
news conference
today. And he said, "I'm not
giving up on
South Carolina," and then he
flew off to the
Midwest to obviously look at
some Super Tuesday
states, where he is hoping to do
better.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let's talk
about Super Tuesday,
Abby Livingston.
Texas is one of the jewels in
the crown that
everyone is waiting to see which
way it goes.
And in the Republican primary,
at least, it
has a home state favorite son,
as it were,
in Ted Cruz, who today got the
governor's
endorsement, not a big surprise,
but certainly
a sign of things to come.
ABBY LIVINGSTON, The Texas
Tribune: Absolutely.
Ted Cruz is definitely a native
son and he's
a favorite among the base voters
who will
show up in a Republican primary.
He ran a
brilliant 2012 Senate campaign.
He knows how
to get the vote out. But the
problem for Ted
Cruz is, he can't just narrowly
win. And Donald
Trump is coming in with a
headwind of momentum.
An Ted Cruz really has to run up
the delegate
count to upset wins that Donald
Trump might
get elsewhere.
So, it's -- we're not quite
sure. Cruz will
probably come out far ahead of
Trump, but
how much is the big question.
GWEN IFILL: Well, so, Texas is a
big state,
I don't need to tell you. How
does campaigning
happen there, especially hard on
after these
other back-to-back-to back
primaries? Are
the people all over the state?
Is it playing
out differently than we would
expect?
ABBY LIVINGSTON: It's been very
quiet.
It's almost as if Texas was is
in the back
of everyone's minds in these
political campaigns.
They were just trying to survive
week to week.
And, suddenly, the juggernaut of
delegates
is upon these campaigns.
And so what they seem to be
doing, it is almost
too late to book television ads,
too late
to send direct mail. So,
instead, they are
blowing into these cities. A
bunch -- the
Republicans are in town with the
Houston debate
tomorrow night, so they are
doing local appearances
here in Houston.
And they're going into Dallas,
which are the
two largest cities and the two
largest television
markets. But beyond that, it's
fairly dormant.
GWEN IFILL: Let's pop back to
South Carolina
and talk about the delegates.
We're talking
about proportional allocation of
the delegates
after the primary. Does that
mean that Bernie
Sanders has a chance to walk
away without
his hands completely empty?
ANDY SHAIN: That's for sure.
You know, you have a majority of
the delegates
here in South Carolina that will
go to the
winner, but you're going to have
three delegates
in each of our seven
congressional districts
that are up for grabs.
And if Bernie is able to capture
at least
15 percent of the vote in any of
the congressional
districts, he will be able to
walk away with
at least one delegate.
So, he won't come away
empty-handed, but he
-- it doesn't look like he is
going to come
away with a large number of
delegates here.
GWEN IFILL: And there is a
treasure trove
of delegates in Texas, Abby.
ABBY LIVINGSTON: Absolutely.
There's 155 on the Republican
side. Fifty-five
-- or about 57 of those are
awarded statewide.
So, Ted Cruz, if he could break
50 percent,
he might be able to walk away
with those,
but that is very unlikely.
The rest are three for
congressional districts.
And so this is a big, big state,
but it also
is feeling smaller in recent
days, as Donald
Trump has been winning in
multiple states.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about the
Donald Trump
effect, especially in Texas,
coming in after
this kind of momentum.
And we saw him in the Nevada
caucuses come
out pretty strongly last night.
Is that when
people perk up and pay
attention, or is there
a way that things work in Texas
that maybe
none of these candidates have
figured out
yet?
ABBY LIVINGSTON: Texas just
hasn't been that
relevant in primary campaigns.
We're usually too late, and
we're pretty bitter
about it. And so, this time,
Texas is totally
relevant. And it's very much
like a national
campaign. There are 20 media
markets. Typically,
in the past, when you run a
state campaign,
you get on a private plane, and
you bolt from
place to place.
And, here, they are just heading
up the local
markets in Dallas and Houston,
and just trying
to make their case. Donald Trump
has a big
rally in Fort Worth, Texas, on
Friday, and
it's competing with Marco Rubio
in Dallas.
And so it's all pinned around
this debate
tomorrow night. And the rest are
bolting onto
the other states and trying to
hit up the
rest of the March 1 primaries.
GWEN IFILL: As we saw in Nevada,
for both
the Democrats and Republicans,
lots of conversation
about the Latino vote. How big a
factor is
that in the Democratic primary
especially
-- well, on the Republican
primaries? It doesn't
matter which primary in Texas.
ABBY LIVINGSTON: Republicans say
that the
Latino vote is consequential,
that there are
plenty of Hispanics who are
business owners
and religiously conservative, so
there is
an appeal.
But, boy, in the Democratic
primary, it's
powerful. Secretary Clinton
began her political
career in 1972 registering South
Texas voters.
And so they are certainly coming
back. They
are reminding all of their old
friends of
these relationships.
But I was down in South Texas
last week. And
I started to sense some tremors
that the local
colleges, some of the kids were
starting to
feel the Bern and were loving
Bernie Sanders.
And so it's much like what we
are seeing play
out in South Carolina. You have
these voting
blocs that the Clintons are
trying to remind,
hey, we have been there you for
decades.
And the kids are just starting
to revolt some.
GWEN IFILL: And, Andy Shain, in
South Carolina,
you are probably getting ready
for all these
ads to go off the air. But what
are voters
seeing and what are they saying
in their mailboxes,
on their radio and on
television?
ANDY SHAIN: Well, for the most
part, it's
been on television.
And what we are seeing mostly is
Hillary Clinton
ads at the moment. Between
and Bernie Sanders, they have
spent about
-- this is of last week -- about
$1.5 million
here in the state. That's about
the same as
Donald -- what Donald Trump
spent. And he
was by -- he was way behind Jeb
Bush and Marco
Rubio and Ted Cruz.
So, they haven't really
saturated the market
here, I think in part because of
just the
wide margin that Secretary
Clinton has held.
GWEN IFILL: OK.
Well, Andy Shain of The State
newspaper in
Columbia, Abby Livingston of The
Texas Tribune,
have fun.
ABBY LIVINGSTON: Thank you for
having me.
ANDY SHAIN: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: And be sure to tune
in tomorrow
night for Judy Woodruff's
pre-primary report
from South Carolina.
Separation of powers is at the
heart of American
democracy, and it seems the
powerful have
never been more separate.
Yesterday, Republicans said they
will block
any nominee the president sends
for the Supreme
Court. They have also rejected
outright his
plan to close the Guantanamo Bay
detention
center and refused earlier this
year to grant
even pro forma consideration to
his budget
blueprint.
Against this backdrop of
resistance, the rise
of Republican front-runner
Donald Trump.
So, how different, how
unprecedented, how
permanent is this growing split?
For that, we turn to two authors
of books
about the political turning
point at hand.
E.J. Dionne is a liberal
columnist for The
Washington Post, and the author
of "Why the
Right Went Wrong." And
conservative Matt Lewis
is a senior contributor for The
Daily Caller
and author of "Too Dumb to
Fail."
Gentlemen, thank you both for
joining us.
Matt Lewis, what is happening,
if anything,
to the Republican party?
MATT K. LEWIS, The Daily Caller:
Well, I think,
with the rise of Donald Trump,
clearly, you
have a populist moment.
I really do worry that we're
going to -- if
Donald Trump wins the
nomination, he will
redefine what it means to be a
conservative,
what it means to be a
Republican. And no longer
will it be a party about ideas,
about free
markets, about defending the
unborn.
And it instead will become a
white, identity
politics, angry, protectionist,
populist party.
And I think that that is a
radically different
direction and something that,
fingers crossed,
will not happen.
GWEN IFILL: But, E.J., given
what we have
seen unfold here in Washington
just in the
past few days, it seems like
it's about more
than Donald Trump.
E.J. DIONNE, Columnist, The
Washington Post:
Oh, absolutely.
I think this is something that
has been happening
to conservatism over 50 years. I
mean, the
first sentence in my book is,
the history
of contemporary American
conservatism is a
story of disappointment and
betrayal.
And I think Republican
politicians have made
a series promises to their base
that they
couldn't possibly keep, about
the rise -- about
shrinking government, about
rolling back cultural
change, changing the ethnic
makeup of the
country.
And the base has gotten angrier
and angrier.
And I think that has led to
Donald Trump.
And I think the leadership in
Congress has
had to take and has chosen to
take a harder
and harder line against a
Democratic president.
I mean, you can say, of course,
Democrats
have opposed presidential
nominees for the
Supreme Court in the past, but I
think what
you have seen over the last few
weeks is really
unprecedented.
GWEN IFILL: Well...
E.J. DIONNE: We won't even hold
a hearing
on your nominee.
And there was a story in The Des
Moines Register
today that Chuck Grassley
wouldn't even meet
with the president to talk about
a nominee.
At least that's where it was.
That really
goes beyond.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Let me ask Matt
Lewis about that.
Is this about conservatism
changing shape?
Is it about Republicanism
Or is E.J. right? The Democrats
have always
done the same thing, or would if
they could.
MATT K. LEWIS: Yes, look, I
think there's
really two different things
happening here.
I think the Donald Trump
phenomenon is unique.
And I think that, really, Trump
is tapping
into a -- more of a -- not a
Republican sort
of incremental change, but a
populist cyclical
movement, from -- you know, from
Andrew Jackson,
to William Jennings Bryan, to
George Wallace,
to Pat Buchanan, to Ross Perot,
and now to
Donald Trump.
I think that Trump is actually
appealing to
a lot of people who aren't
necessarily the
Republican base. In some cases,
they are liberal
or moderate-leaning Republicans,
or, in some
cases, what -- I guess what we
used to call
Reagan Democrats.
I think that's different from
the phenomenon
that we are seeing with this
gridlock, which
I think is a bipartisan problem,
but I think
is much more in keeping with the
Ted Cruz-ization
of the Republican Party.
(CROSSTALK)
MATT K. LEWIS: If Ted Cruz were
the front-runner
today...
GWEN IFILL: Go ahead, E.J.
MATT K. LEWIS: If Ted Cruz were
the front-runner
today, I think we could make
sort of more
of a straight line between the
obstructionism
and the presidential race.
GWEN IFILL: E.J.?
E.J. DIONNE: Yes, I agree with
Matt that there
is populism here, but I think it
is much more
a part of the Republican Party
and something
Republicans have courted.
One of the points I make in the
book -- and
it is not just a liberal like me
saying this
-- it's people like Ross
Douthat, the conservative
columnist for The New York
Times, or Reihan
Salam, a conservative
intellectual -- it's
that the Republican Party has
relied on white
working-class votes election
after election,
and has not delivered anything
to those voters.
And I think those voters in --
very much in
the Republican Party are sick of
being ignored.
And so you have this odd
phenomenon of a billionaire
like Donald Trump leading a
class war inside
the Republican Party.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let me try
this.
Matt, is it possible that, on
resisting the
Guantanamo Bay plan, on
resisting the president's
insistence on sending a nominee
to the court,
on resisting his budget, that
perhaps that's
what Senate Republicans are
doing, delivering
what they believe they are owed
-- or they
owe to their constituencies?
MATT K. LEWIS: Well, now, look,
I guess I
should begin by saying, you
know, obviously,
you can tell by the book "Too
Dumb to Fail"
that I'm more than comfortable
criticizing
Republicans and conservatives
and the dumbing
down of conservatism. And I
certainly think
that the shutting down of
government was a
stupid move that could never --
it was never
going to defund Obamacare.
And so -- but, having said that,
I am a conservative.
And I think that, although I
oppose Republican
stupid moves, I completely
understand, for
example, why they would want to
wait and see
if there is a new president
before changing
the court, for example, one of
the examples
of obstructionism.
So it is in the eye of the
beholder. And,
really, frankly, I think they
are all hypocrites,
whether it is Chuck Schumer and
Barack Obama
and Joe Biden, or today Mitch
McConnell and
the Republicans. So, look, I
think that one
man's obstructionism is another
man's balance
of power, separation of power,
checks and
balances.
So, I think that, if you are a
Republican,
the smart move is to try to
obstruct right
now when it comes to changing
the face of
the court for a generation.
GWEN IFILL: So, OK, E.J., if
that's true,
if that is the smart move for
Republicans
right now, what should the
Democrats be doing?
Does the president just sit back
and take
it, or is there a way to push
back that actually
cuts through, or does he just
stay out of
the fight?
E.J. DIONNE: Again, I just want
to emphasize
that, while I agree, obviously,
that both
parties can play politics and
don't want a
court to move far in one
direction or the
other, I really think that what
they are doing
now goes beyond what we saw in
the past.
And it is a response to
conservative judicial
activism that gave us Citizens
United and
weakened the Voting Rights Act.
And I think,
because they have gone this far,
this gives
a real opening to Democrats,
because there
are a lot of Republicans running
for reelection
to the Senate from Democratic
states or purple
states, when look at states like
Illinois,
where Senator Kirk has already
said, oh, gee,
I don't want to do this, or you
look at Pennsylvania
or you look at Wisconsin.
I think the Democrats have ways
of really
turning this into an issue. And
I think the
more the president reaches out
to Republicans
and said, look, I would love to
talk to you
about whether we can find a
nominee who is
a middle-of-the-roader, and the
Republicans
refuse even to engage in those
conversations,
I think that is going to put the
Republicans
in a very difficult spot.
GWEN IFILL: Final thought, Matt
Lewis, not
your job, but what should the
Democrats do?
MATT K. LEWIS: Oh, what should
the Democrats
do?
I would nominate somebody,
probably a minority
who is incredibly sympathetic,
who has a great
biography, a great story to
tell. I would
let the Republicans refuse to
hold hearings,
refuse to meet with this
sympathetic nominee.
Then I would demagogue the heck
out of it.
I would win elections and I
would drive the
country farther apart, as I
think Barack Obama
will probably take my advice in
this case.
GWEN IFILL: Well, there is a
nice cheerful
outcome of driving the country
further apart.
Matt Lewis, the author of "Too
Dumb to Fail,"
E.J. Dionne, the author of "Why
the Right
Went Wrong," thank you both.
E.J. DIONNE: Thank you so much.
MATT K. LEWIS: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
Bush era NSA
and CIA director takes a hard
line on wiretapping,
water-boarding and rendition;
and why a former
Goldman Sachs executive wants to
overhaul
Wall Street.
But, first, for over a
half-a-century, the
United States has maintained a
large and diverse
nuclear arsenal to deter other
countries from
even contemplating a nuclear
strike against
America.
Now, as the Pentagon embarks on
a wide-ranging,
and hugely expensive, plan to
modernize what's
known as the triad, bombers,
submarines and
missiles, there are calls to
rethink whether
all three are needed.
Special correspondent Jamie
McIntyre has our
report, produced in partnership
with the Pulitzer
center on Crisis Reporting.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: Behind this
massive eight-ton
door 60 feet below the frozen
fields of North
Dakota, a 27-year-old first
lieutenant heads
a two-person team with a
singular mission.
The two junior Air Force
officers are missileers
entrusted with executing the
most consequential
of presidential orders. At
almost the same
time, at nearby Minot Air Force
Base, a B-52
Stratofortress that's been
flying for more
than half-a-century is drenched
with deicing
fluid. Its aging jet engines
roar to life
with the help of eight explosive
charges,
a method developed during the
Cold War to
give the bomber a quick
kick-start in a crisis.
All the while, hundreds of feet
beneath the
Pacific Ocean, sailors aboard a
U.S. ballistic
missile submarine methodically
perform their
weekly doomsday drill, three
ways to do the
same thing, end the world as we
know it, by
launching nuclear weapons.
MAN: Weapons away.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: Missiles,
bombers, subs, America's
nuclear triad, a three-pronged
approach to
deterrence that dates back to
the 1960s, when
the former Soviet Union was the
enemy, MAD,
mutual assured destruction, the
strategy,
and thermonuclear war seemed a
real possibility.
ADM. CECIL HANEY, U.S. Strategic
Commander:
The real key here, as you look
at the combination
of the triad, is making the
adversary's problem
very complex, very costly, so
that restraint
is a better option.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: U.S. Strategic
Commander Cecil
Haney is the four-star admiral
in charge of
America's nuclear arsenal. He
says the triad
endures because it's still the
surest way
to guarantee that, even if hit
with a first
strike, plenty of U.S. nuclear
weapons would
survive, enough to allow Haney
to present
the president a full range of
options.
It's a strategy based on
redundancy, having
backups for backups. But to
critics, maintaining
and rebuilding all three legs of
the triad
in the 21st century amounts to
expensive overkill,
among those critics, former
Defense Secretary
William Perry.
WILLIAM PERRY, Former U.S.
Defense Secretary:
Well, you can have belts and
suspenders, and
then belts and suspenders for
the belts and
the and suspenders. And that is
what we are
getting into here.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: Perry says the
current strategy
is based on the folly of winning
a nuclear
conflict, the kind of Cold War
thinking caricatured
in the classic movie "Dr.
Strangelove."
ACTOR: Mr. President, I'm not
saying we wouldn't
get our hair mussed. But I do
say no more
than 10 to 20 million killed,
tops, depending
on the breaks.
WILLIAM PERRY: The whole sort of
"Dr. Strangelove"
rationale that went with how you
use nuclear
weapons, which was endemic to
the Cold War,
I don't think is in place today.
If we regard
nuclear weapons, the role of
nuclear weapons
today, as preventing the use of
nuclear the
weapons against us, then all of
that goes
away.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: The United
States is at the
point where, to maintain the
safety and reliability
of its aging nuclear arsenal,
largely designed
in the 1950s and '60s, almost
everything needs
an upgrade. There are plans for
new submarines
and stealth bombers, along with
upgraded bombs
and missiles to go with them.
Add in the possibility of next
generation
land-based intercontinental
ballistic missiles,
ICBMs, and the price tag comes
to an eye-popping
$1 trillion over 30 years.
Despite the substantial
cost, trimming the triad is not
an issue that's
gotten any serious examination
on the presidential
campaign trail.
It did come up once in last
December's GOP
debate.
QUESTION: Of the three legs of
the triad,
though, do you have a priority?
I want to
go to Senator Rubio after that
and ask him.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I think -- I think, for me,
nuclear is just
the power, the devastation is
very important
to me.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: If Donald Trump
had an understanding
of the triad, he gave no hint,
and it fell
to Marco Rubio to fill in the
gap.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
The triad is our ability of the
United States
to conduct nuclear attacks using
airplanes,
using missiles launched from
silos or from
the ground, and also from our
nuclear subs.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: Each leg of the
triad has
its advantages. Submarines are
stealthy, virtually
undetectable, and therefore
nearly invulnerable.
Bombers are slow enough to be
recalled at
the last minute. It's the third
leg, the intercontinental
ballistic missiles, on
hair-trigger alert,
that are under the microscope.
We're flying over the missile
field that essentially
surrounds Minot Air Force Base,
150 ICBMs
buried in silos underground
spread across
8,500 square miles of North
Dakota.
It's just one of three missile
fields that
cover five states, Montana,
Wyoming, Nebraska,
Colorado, and North Dakota, 450
ICBMs altogether.
Were it not for the security
fence, this silo
would be barely visible in the
snow. But the
locals know where it is, and so
do America's
enemies.
Having so many missiles in
fixed, known locations
makes them a tempting target if
an adversary
were to contemplate a first
strike, which
in turn, critics argue, creates
pressure to
launch right away, at the first
sign of attack.
Among those critics, no less
than former U.S.
Strategic Commander General
James Cartwright.
GEN. JAMES CARTWRIGHT (RET.),
Former Vice
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs:
You have automatically
forced the president, in our
case, to make
a decision to use his weapons or
lose them.
That doesn't make a lot of
sense. Use or lose
doesn't contribute to
deterrence.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: Cartwright is
now chair of
studies at Global Zero, a
disarmament advocacy
organization. He thinks the day
of the ICBM
may have come and gone.
GEN. JAMES CARTWRIGHT: I believe
that the
current ICBM structure, the way
it's based
and the way it operates, is
probably not something
that we need to carry to the
future.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: Jim Miller was
undersecretary
of defense for policy during the
Obama administration,
and led the Pentagon's review of
nuclear weapons
policy. He argues that
land-based ICBMs are
a hedge against unforeseen
complications.
JAMES MILLER, Former U.S.
Undersecretary of
Defense for Policy: Without a
substantial
number of ICBMs in the United
States, if we
had some problem, a technical
problem, or
a vulnerability because of any
submarine warfare
of potential adversary with our
submarines,
we'd be left with an adversary
having to undertake
an attack involving only a
handful of aim
points in order to take out a
deterrent.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: At Minot Air
Force Base, Colonel
Kelvin Townsend, vice commander
of the 91st
Missile Wing, stressed that
neither subs,
which have to be contacted at
sea, nor bombers,
which have to be put on alert
and fly to their
launch points, can match
land-based missiles
for speed of response.
COL. KELVIN TOWNSEND, Vice
Commander, 91st
Missile Wing: Anywhere on the
planet, we can
be within moment's notice. And
within roughly
30-plus minutes, we can be
there.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: But that quick
reaction time
makes the ICBM potentially the
most destabilizing
leg of the triad, argues former
Defense Secretary
William Perry:
WILLIAM PERRY: If you're going
to blow up
the whole world, what is the
hurry? Why do
you mind waiting another 20
minutes to do
that? I don't see either the
common sense
or even the strategic argument
for doing that.
JAMIE MCINTYRE: And Perry says
no one has
found any reliable way to detect
or defeat
submarines at sea. Bombers and
submarines
can do the job, he argues, with
a high degree
of confidence.
At the Air and Space Museum in
Washington,
Joe Cirincione gazes at a
Minuteman-III ICBM
on display. He's president of
the Ploughshares
Fund, which advocates deep cuts
in the U.S.
nuclear arsenal. He says
supporters of keeping
all three legs of the triad have
lost touch
with the destructive power of
the weapons.
JOSEPH CIRINCIONE, President,
Ploughshares
Fund: One nuclear weapon on one
city would
be a disaster that we haven't
seen since World
War II. Ten nuclear weapons on
10 cities would
be catastrophe beyond historical
experience.
And hundreds of weapons on
hundreds of cities
could end human history
altogether. Why do
you need 5,000?
JAMIE MCINTYRE: For now, the
debate over the
triad is purely academic. The
latest Pentagon
budget funds plans to begin
rebuilding all
three legs, and no one in
Congress is mounting
any serious opposition.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jamie McIntyre.
GWEN IFILL: There's a lot more
online about
rebuilding America's triad. You
can see excerpts
of key interviews and view a
photo essay,
all that at PBS.org/NewsHour.
We move now from defense to
intelligence,
and how the country has changed
since the
attacks of September 11.
The privacy vs. security debate
has surfaced
again in the wake of the FBI's
appeal to tech
giant Apple to unlock an iPhone
that belonged
to one of the San Bernardino
shootings. And
there is renewed campaign debate
over torture.
Hari Sreenivasan has our
conversation with
one man who was at the center of
U.S. intelligence
policy.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Retired Air
Force General
Michael Hayden is the only
person to ever
serve as both the director of
the CIA and
the head of the National
Security Agency.
His tenure at both agencies came
during a
critical period, as the U.S.
launched and
prosecuted the global war on
terror.
He's just written a book about
his time in
government called "Playing to
the Edge."
He joins me now.
Thanks for joining us.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN (RET.),
Former CIA Director:
Thank you, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, let's
start with some
things that are in the news
right now.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Sure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sure.
So, just earlier this week, the
administration
says the very existence of the
prison at Guantanamo
Bay is a recruiting tool for our
enemy. You
can see it in the orange
jumpsuits that you
see in every horrible beheading
video that
ISIS produces. You agree?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: I don't
think it's a
powerful recruitment tool for
jihadism.
And let me add one additional
thought. If
and when he brings these
prisoners to North
America, he's still going to
insist on indefinite
detention without trial for a
whole bunch
of them. All he's done is moved
them from
a warm to a cold climate.
But he's still sticking to the
legal principle
that some other countries object
to that we
actually can treat them as
prisoners of war
and keep them for the duration
of the conflict.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK.
The other big story right now is
obviously
this tension between Apple and
the government.
In this conversation, you have
said that you
come down on the side of Apple
more often
than not. In this specific case,
with this
specific device, you are on the
side of the
government in trying to open it
up. This is
the phone, of course, that was
used by the
attacker in San Bernardino.
You know, one of Apple's
arguments has been,
listen, this will set a
precedent, it will
create a back door. And, sure
enough, there's
at least nine or 10 other cases
where Apple
is being asked to open up that
phone.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Absolutely.
And the U.S. attorney in
Manhattan says he
has got 175 of these instruments
sitting in
a room that he wants to be
reopened. So, in
this particular case, the
original ask from
the FBI, going back months now,
was some sort
of universal back door that
would allow them
to get into Apple and other
companies' encrypted
devices.
Frankly, Hari, I think American
safety, American
security -- put the privacy
argument aside,
which is quite powerful. But I'm
a security
guy. I think American security
is better served
with end-to-end unbreakable
encryption.
And I recognize that makes the
life of the
FBI more difficult, may even
make the life
of my old agency more difficult.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK.
Speaking of tools, you have said
that enhanced
interrogation techniques, what
most American
would consider torture, worked.
In the case
of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, he
had been water-boarded
-- I want to get this right --
183 times,
kept awake for seven-and-a-half
days, been
in multiple stress positions.
In a Senate report just a couple
of years
ago, it found that a lot of the
information
he gave us was either
misinformation or he
would confirm something after
the government
showed him that, hey, we have
this from another
source already.
So, I'm wondering, why does
America still
need these techniques?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Well, I
came to the agency
in '06, all right?
Most of this was already
history. I could
have walked away from it. But I
studied the
program over the summer of '06.
And I detailed
kind of my personal journey in
this. And I
decided that -- and a lot of
things had changed.
We were safer. We knew about the
enemy more.
Some laws had changed, all
right?
So, I was fairly willing to pull
the program
back. But I wasn't judging what
my predecessors
had done. And I wanted some form
of program
to go forward, so that the
president would
have that option.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You might not
judge your
predecessors, but the American
people certainly
do. Right?
If you felt like were you on
solid legal footing,
why do this -- why do this in
renditions,
in black sites? Why destroy the
tapes of what
these events looked like?
Because that seems
like almost a tacit admission
that, guess
what, somebody back home isn't
going to think
too highly of this.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Well, what
I try to suggest
-- and actually point out in
some detail in
the book -- is, for example, the
U.S. policy
on renditions is the same under
this president
as it was under President Bush.
That hasn't
changed.
All right? These were extreme
circumstances.
No one is arguing that this
should be a fast
or an easy decision. I tell the
story in the
book. Although I emptied the
sites in '06,
we kept them open. We wanted to
have the option
of using them.
I put two people in them. And I
relayed in
the story that I sat there with
the order
to authorize extended sleep
deprivation on
one of the detainees, Mohammad
Rahim, and
I never forgot he was a human
being.
HARI SREENIVASAN: General, in a
recent op-ed
in The New York Times, which was
an excerpt
of the book, you defended the
policy of drone
strikes.
And you said in there that the
signature strikes
were thoroughly researched, and,
to use your
words, 'Intelligence for
signature strikes
always had multiple threads and
deep history.
The data was near encyclopedic."
And, interestingly enough, in
that same chapter,
you point out where you got the
wrong one-legged
guy.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And you had an
after-action
to figure out what went wrong.
Right?
So, I think the question on the
minds of a
lot of people is, what is our
actual ratio
of innocent bystanders or
collateral damage
to every person we have? We have
outside estimates
from the Investigative
Journalism Bureau and
other places that say that these
could be
in the hundreds or thousands.
You say: Listen, based on the
intelligence
I have seen, that's not the
case.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But the irony
is, is that,
well, we're kind of left to fill
the vacuum
if that information never
actually becomes
public.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: No. Hari,
you are absolutely
right. And I regret that.
And, unfortunately, I went to my
own limits,
playing to the edge, with what
it was I could
write about. So, I fully admit
-- I think
I described the targeted killing
program as
necessary, precise and
imperfect. All right?
And I fully admit, and I
actually give examples
as you suggest where we actually
made mistakes.
But we moved heaven and earth to
do the right
thing, to make sure we targeted
legitimate
targets. And I actually say in
there, this
may be the most precise
application of firepower
in the history of modern
conflict.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The underlying
question
also is, I guess, one of trust.
There is just -- you have said
that, for example,
when you found out that the
Snowden revelations
were going to happen, that it
was going to
uncover the information
collection program
that you helped set up at the
NSA, that, on
a personal level, you felt that
there was
a betrayal of trust.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You can
understand then
how perhaps the country would
feel betrayed
that one of our liberties was
being taken
away by our own government.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: If I'm out
there working
for an agency, and if I have got
the president
to authorize it, and Congress to
legislate
it or oversee it, and the courts
to perform
their functions when the law
requires, I think
I have got the Madisonian
trifecta. This is
really important. The political
culture has
shifted underneath us, all
right?
And a lot of good Americans, not
just ones
wearing tinfoil on their heads,
if you understand
what I mean, very serious,
thinking Americans
are now looking at that and
saying, in today's
political culture, what you just
described,
Hayden, is no longer consent of
the governed.
That is consent of the
governors. You may
have told them, but you didn't
tell me.
So, now we have what is
unarguably an existential
question for American espionage.
How will
we be able to conduct espionage
in the future,
inside a broader political
culture that demands
more transparency and more
public accountability
from every aspect of national
life?
It is a fundamental question.
And one final
point. We, the spy guys, have to
accommodate
to the broader political
culture, not the
other way around.
HARI SREENIVASAN: General
Michael Hayden.
The book is called "Playing to
the Edge."
Thanks so much for joining us.
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Now to another
reignited debate,
this one about the role and size
of the country's
big banks, Wall Street, and
accountability.
It's been playing out
periodically in the
presidential campaign, and is
once again a
subject of attention and debate
in the world
of finance.
Tonight, we start a series of
occasional conversations
on the subject.
Jeffrey Brown has our first.
JEFFREY BROWN: Last week came a
strong argument
that -- quote -- "The biggest
banks continue
to pose a significant, ongoing
risk to our
economy."
And it came from an unusual
source.
Neel Kashkari is a former
investment banker.
He started his career at Goldman
Sachs, then
joined the Bush Treasury
Department in 2006,
later serving as a key player in
the government's
response to the financial crisis
as administrator
of the TARP program, which
helped bail out
the big banks.
In 2014, he ran for governor of
California
as a Republican, losing to
incumbent Jerry
Brown. He's now president of the
Federal Reserve
Bank of Minneapolis, and joins
us now.
And welcome to you.
So, still too big to fail,
you're saying.
This is in spite of Dodd-Frank,
in spite of
all we have seen. You are
suggesting a crisis
could still happen and big banks
would still
need bailing out?
NEEL KASHKARI, President,
Federal Reserve
Bank of Minneapolis: Yes.
Unfortunately, that's
true.
Dodd-Frank has made a lot of
progress. The
banks are stronger. They have
more capital,
so they can withstand bad things
happening.
But if something -- if a big
shock were to
hit the U.S. economy, I'm afraid
that the
taxpayers would likely still
have to step
in and bail out the banks.
In my view, based on my
experience during
the crisis, we have not yet
solved the too-big-to-fail
problem. And we do need to.
JEFFREY BROWN: And so things
like the stress
test, you have already had some
people push
back at your critique, stress
test and others
things. You're just -- you don't
think those
are strong enough; you don't
trust them?
NEEL KASHKARI: Well, here's the
thing.
The crisis in 2008 was so
devastating for
the U.S. economy, millions of
jobs were lost,
tens of trillions of dollars of
wealth was
destroyed by that terrible
crisis. I think
we all agree that we never want
to have that
happen again.
But we need to be able to allow
banks to run
into trouble without bringing
down the whole
U.S. economy. If you remember
the tech bubble
in the 1990s, it was a big boom
and then it
crashed. That was painful for
Silicon Valley,
but it didn't risk the whole
U.S. economy.
We need to make sure our
financial system
is that strong, so that it can
withstand the
shock without hurting the rest
of us.
JEFFREY BROWN: Just to be clear,
how serious
or how dire is the situation? Is
the financial
system at risk now? Is that what
you are suggesting?
NEEL KASHKARI: No, I think the
financial system
is strong right now. But the key
is, now is
the time, when it's strong, for
us to make
these big transformational
changes, so that
10 years from now or 20 or 30
years from now,
we don't have another crisis.
You know, as a society, we tend
to repeat
the same mistakes. A lot of
mistakes that
led to the Great Depression, we
repeated in
2000 -- in the 2000s, leading to
the great
crash. And so we need to make
sure that we
make the changes now, so that 20
or 30 years
from now, we're not back in the
same situation.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, in the
options that you
laid out in a speech last week,
option number
one was break -- was the
straightforward break
up the big banks.
So, how would you do that? How
do you decide
what is big? And why, for
example, would 10
moderate-sized banks be less
dangerous than
five big ones?
NEEL KASHKARI: Sure.
Well, what we're doing in
Minneapolis is,
we're bringing experts together
from around
the country who have different
proposals for
how to solve too big to fail.
So, we haven't
picked which one we think is
best yet. We
want to bring the experts in,
analyze their
proposals, and come out with our
recommendations
at the end of the year.
But look at the -- in the 1980s,
roughly 1,000
Savings & Loans failed in the
S&L crisis.
Again, that was devastating for
those communities
and for those banks, but it
didn't risk an
entire nationwide economic
collapse. So, there
is a precedent of having smaller
banks, they
might make similar mistakes
without bringing
down the whole economy.
We want to analyze these
objectively and figure
out what's the right solution
and how do we
go forward.
JEFFREY BROWN: As you know, a
number of bankers
in the past and even after you
gave your talk,
they have said that bigger is in
some ways
better, right, that they can
offer more services,
that if U.S. banks were not
allowed to be
so big, international banks,
China and elsewhere,
would swoop in and take the
business.
NEEL KASHKARI: Well, you know,
if other countries
want to take huge risks with
their financial
systems, we can't stop them. My
view is, we
should do what's right for the
United States,
come up with one set of rules
for any bank
that wants to do business here,
and then enforce
those rules evenly.
And, hopefully, we can lead the
rest of the
world to follow our path, follow
our example.
We need to address this. It's
not only American
banks that are too big to fail.
As you indicated,
there are some banks outside the
U.S. too.
But it's time for us to show
leadership on
this issue.
JEFFREY BROWN: I read your
speech. You did
not suggest or propose bringing
back Glass-Steagall.
I wonder why not. Why not go
farther to once
again separate commercial
banking from investment
banking?
NEEL KASHKARI: You know, I don't
have a strong
opposition to bringing back
Glass-Steagall.
I just know, based on the crisis
that we just
went through, it really wasn't
the combination
of investment banking and
commercial banking
that triggered that crisis. It
was the fact
that a lot of banks made a lot
of bad loans.
It was plain vanilla lending
that went off
course.
And so we need to make sure our
banking system
and non-banks, our insurance
companies, et
cetera, that they are all safe
and secure
and that they can't risk
bringing down the
whole U.S. economy.
As you know, in 2008, AIG, one
of the largest
insurance companies, that became
a systemic
risk that almost brought us
down, and it required
a taxpayer bailout. I think we
all agree we
never want to do that again.
So, I'm proposing, let's take
action now to
make sure we're never in that
situation.
JEFFREY BROWN: And let me just
ask you, when
you made this speech and got a
lot of attention
last week, a lot of the focus
was on the messenger,
an unlikely messenger, a lot of
people thought,
a former banker now telling us
the banks are
too big, a former regulator
telling us that
essentially regulators are not
able, even
now, to act in a way that still
might hurt
the economy, still might have to
bail out
the banks.
A reformed -- a reform person,
what -- how
do you describe yourself? How
are we to see
this?
NEEL KASHKARI: Well, I am an
experienced person.
I was a strong free market
ideologue going
into Washington. Then we all
lived through
the terrible economic crisis.
And I think
I learned humility about markets
can make
mistakes. Regulators are not
omniscient.
I asked people, I said, did you
predict that
the price of oil would drop from
$150 to $30?
I didn't see it. There are a lot
of things
that can happen in the world
economy that
we're not going to be able to
predict. So,
we need to make sure that our
financial system
is robust, so that if those
things happen,
the system can be strong and not
require taxpayer
bailouts, and not cause
devastation to the
American people.
JEFFREY BROWN: Neel Kashkari,
thank you so
much.
NEEL KASHKARI: Thanks for having
me.
GWEN IFILL: Tune in later
tonight on PBS for
a documentary focusing on the
massive amount
of digital data that we record
every day.
The human face of big data looks
at the indelible
digital trail we all leave
behind and explores
how it can be used to address
some of our
biggest challenges, hunger,
pollution, disaster
response and health. But it
turns out it can
also help us understand how
babies learn words.
DEB ROY, MIT: At MIT, Deb Roy
and his colleagues
wanted to see if they could
understand how
children acquire language.
And we realized that no one
really knew, for
a simple reason. There was no
data.
NARRATOR: After he and his wife,
Rupal, brought
their newborn son home from the
hospital,
they did what every parent would
do, mount
a camera in the ceiling of each
room in their
home and record every moment of
their lives
for two years, a mere 200
gigabytes of data
recorded every day.
DEB ROY: We ended up
transcribing somewhere
between eight and nine million
words of speech.
And as soon as we had that, we
could go and
identify the exact moment where
my son first
said a new word. We started
calling them births.
We took this idea of a word
birth, and we
started thinking about, why
don't we trace
back in time and look at the
gestation period
for that word?
One example of this was water.
So, we looked
at every time my son heard the
word water,
what was happening? Where in the
house were
they? How were they moving
about? And using
that visual information to
capture something
about the context within which
the words are
used.
We call them wordscapes. Then we
could ask
the question, how does the
wordscape associated
with the word predict when my
son will actually
start using that word?
NARRATOR: What they learned from
watching
Deb's son was that the texture
of the wordscapes
had predictive power. If most of
the previous
research had indicated that the
way language
was learned was through
repetition, then this
analysis of the data showed that
it wasn't
actually repetition that
generated learning,
but context.
Words with more distinct
wordscapes, that
is words heard in many varied
locations, would
be learned first.
GWEN IFILL: That's kind of
fascinating. "Big
Data" premieres tonight on most
PBS stations.
You can check your local
listings for times.
On the "NewsHour" online: You
can see where
stars are born. The
high-altitude APEX telescope
in Chile has captured new images
that depict
the coldest parts of our Milky
Way galaxy.
You can see a gallery of photos,
which provide
the broadest map to date of the
where new
stars might spring to life, on
our home page,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And on "Charlie Rose" tonight:
actor and producer
Kevin Spacey on the new season
of "House of
Cards" and the launch of his
documentary series,
"Race for the White House.'
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Thursday, we talk with the
mother of one
of the Columbine shooters about
her new book
on living in the aftermath of
tragedy.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again right
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.